\newpage

# Problem Analysis

The roots of the classic HAZOP risk analysis lie in the early concepts of @Fussel1973_Fault_Tree_Construction in the 1970s. @Fussel1973_Fault_Tree_Construction described automated fault tree analysis by piecing together “mini fault trees”, which provides a methodology for filling out the cause columns of a HAZOP table. This early start of the HAZOP study methodology eventually developed into a risk analysis method used by many companies. Since then, there have been many attempts to automate HAZOP studies. Yet there are still very few industrial applications of automated HAZOP, and companies still invest tens to hundreds of thousands of dollars in performing HAZOP studies manually in HAZOP study workshops, see @Taylor2017_Automated_HAZOP.

Today this manual work is widely done in Excel spreadsheets. While those are easy to work in and readable for humans, they present a barrier to our vision of a truly modular plant. Excel sheets do not provide structures that are machine readable. Since the results are stored in large, packed tables for each individual plant, they lack an accessible way of storing and reading them. This lack hinders the potential to reuse the work that was put into the HAZOP studies, making them essentially one time use. Furthermore, the ontology used, in human readable form, is not rigid enough to apply semantic to it, hindering any automatic processing.

These inefficiencies can be remedied by converting the large HAZOP excel tables into an easier and better to handle format. We propose the use of a Resource Description Framework (RDF) ontology, instead of the classic Excel table approach. RDF ontologies allow for easy storage, locally or on designated servers. They are machine readable and combined with its wide level of adaption and easy to handle language, RDF HAZOPs solve the problem of reusability, saving both work and time in the plant building process. The queryable nature of RDF databases creates the possibility for automatic interfacing between individual module HAZOPs, analogous to the mechanical and electrical interfacing they already possess.

We recognize the advantages of Excel spreadsheets in the process of creating HAZOP safety studies. Further, we believe in giving the safety engineers the maximum amount of freedom to conduct their primary work in a way that suits their personal workflow best. Thus, we believe the best way to implement this solution is to create an Importer/Exporter and database that converts Excel sheets, which are easy to read for humans, to RDF ontologies and vise-versa.
